10106355 Spring Term MA1805_Group Final Interactive Project & Text Submission

Inspirations :
   I still remember the good old times when I was still a kid and my grandma, who lived with us,would play games with me. While she had taught me and my cousins many different games such as Poker, Gold Fish , Texas Hold Em Etc.There was this game that I particularly remember the game Blackjack. It was simple enough of a game to remember for a seven year old child, just a simple game of additions and subtractions. Despite the fact that she’s longer with us anymore, me and my cousins would all come together every once in a while for a game. However after moving to England it's not every now and then I could play with my cousins. This had truly inspired me to create my own Blackjack, to remember the good old times of playing with grandma. 

Design for the art :
     While designing for the art, I went for an 8-bit design approach as it gives a more nostalgic feeling to it. The design screen wasn’t anything too particularly unique, it's simply your average opening screen of a game. The chips however were special. Instead of putting the initial currency value of the chip, I have drawn pictures of a car , a house , a dollar sign and a humanoid figure. The initial idea of the idea is to raise gambling addiction awareness, but the idea was later scrapped as I have made a design error for the smaller chips, so later in the code I have coded something else instead. As the player has more money the chips would become a larger pile, vice versa , meaning the more chips/money you get from gambling, the more you are able to afford in life? Not particularly the best gambling addiction prevention game. 

Explained code for the game:
    There are a total of 6 different classes which are  ‘Hand’,‘Card’,'Deck’,’BlackjackGame’,’GridSystem’ and ‘ScreenManager’. With the first 4 classes serving the purpose of constructing the game itself and the rest for the title screen. 
    Firstly, the ‘GridSystem’ was implemented to carry out a neat layout for the button in the title screen. While testing out my code in various computers because of technical difficulties, I have decided to use grids to ensure that the ‘play’ button is in the position I want it to be consistently. Moving onto the ‘ScreenManager’, this class’s main function is to switch different display screens, mainly the title screen and the game gui itself. The handleClick custom function is paired with the switch/case condition, to ensure that the buttons would not clash while in different screens and specific buttons would only work in specific screens, for example line 465-479 where the betting screen buttons would not be triggered after the betting stage screen. 
  Next, the ‘Hand’. Mainly made up of 3 different parts, the empty array (this.card) to hold the classes into the places addCard(card) to add a card onto the array and calculateScore() to calculate the score,since aces could mean 1 or 11 in the game, the code would first loop through the cards to calculate the score ,where aces are counted separately, if the total card value exceeds a number + 11 , the ace would automatically be treated as 1 instead of 11. (see line 77-92)
 The ‘Card’ class is used to handle card features, such as the suit, the value , the size , the position and the visibility for the cards; an update function is also implemented to add animation (lerp). The ‘Deck’, is where the cards are drawn from, the initialize() function creates the 52 card in the deck and also adds value and suits onto the card, shuffle() functions shuffles the card in the deck randomly, allowing each card to be in any position equally. Lastly the dealCard(hand,x,y,hidden) is to set the position of the card into the designated playing area and manage the dealer’s hidden card. Both classes work closely together as the Deck class in the shuffling function uses the pop() method to remove the last card from the cards array, not only does it work to give the players in the game card but to also update the cards themselves in the game. 
   Last but not least the Blackjack function, where it contains the controls of the game and how it functions. The constructs of this class include the player’s hand , the dealer’s hand, the deck and the game’s state. The startGame() where it shuffles the deck and deals the card to both the player and the dealer, setting up the game. The playerHit() is to add a card to the player’s hand (adding value to their hand) allowing the player to take an additional card. The dealerPlay() is how the dealer would function in the game, if his card value is below 17 he has to hit, this automates the dealer’s moves. Last but not least determineOutcome() where an if/else condition is applied to measure the outcome. This class also works closely with the other classes as it relies on the Deck to manage the cards while the Hand to hold the player’s and the dealer’s cards. 

Areas of improvement :
    There was the function that was initially going to be added which is splitting the deck. Failing to implement this function into my code is because we were limited to 1000 and it would be quite time consuming, however traces of the code could still be found in line 174,175, 271 - 274. The code still exists in the code as it could bug out if it wasn't and I have no idea how to fix it within this short period of time. 


(link to project : https://github.com/vpstz/10106355-Spring-Term-MA1805_Group-Final-Interactive-Project-Text-Submission.git)
